1?Introduction to Computing Concepts?1?This course presents an overview of computing technology and the field of computer science. Discussion topics will include the organisation of modern computers, operating systems, algorithms, programming languages and database systems.?COMP 1600?NONE?$?1?
2?Computer Programming I?1?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach fundamental programming concepts. The main concepts covered are sequence, selection and repetition logic, character and string manipulation, function, and a basic introduction to arrays and their applications.?COMP 1601?NONE?$?1?
3?Computer Programming II?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are structures, one- and two-dimensional arrays and applications involving searching, sorting and merging, random number generation, numerical methods, games and simulation.?COMP 1602?NONE?$?1?
4?Computer Programming III?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are pointers, linked lists, stacks and queues and their implementations using arrays and linked lists and recursion.?COMP 1603?NONE?$?1?
5?Mathematics for Computing?2?This course introduces students to the basic mathematical structures and computational techniques that are considered to be the foundation for courses in computer science and information technology. Students are also taught how to reason logically and how to solve problems using various proof techniques. The main mathematical structures covered are logic, sets, relations and functions.?COMP 1604?NONE?$?1?
6?Introduction to Information Technology Concepts?1?This is a foundation course in Information Technology and it introduces students to the discipline of Information Technology. It describes how it relates to other computing disciplines. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate what is Information Technology and how it is used by organizations today to improve their efficiency and profitability. The course also provides a general overview of the B.Sc. in Information Technology so that when the course concludes, students will understand how the whole degree fits together in a cohesive manner. Numerous examples are presented throughout the course so that students can get a concrete picture of the role of information technology in organizations.?INFO 1600?NONE?$?1?
7?Introduction to WWW Programming?2?This is an introduction to web technologies and systems, including hypertext, self-descriptive text, web page design, web navigational systems, and various mark-up languages and scripting languages. Programming examples; exercises and projects are drawn from practical web-based applications. Good programming practice and program clarity is emphasized throughout the course. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate the need for web related technologies and how they are used by organizations to improve their efficiency, marketability and profitability.?INFO 1601?NONE?$?1?
8?Fundamental Mathematics for the General Sciences I?1?Course offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics?MATH 1115?NONE?$?1?
9?Computer Architecture?1?This course builds upon knowledge and skills developed in COMP 1600. This course explores how computers from a programmer’s view point rather than from the hardware designer’s perspective. Topics include: Digital Logic and Digital Systems, Machine Level Representation of Data, Assembly Level Machine Organization, Memory System Organization and Architecture, Interfacing and Communication, Multiprocessing and Alternative Architectures, and Performance Enhancements. The overarching theme of the course is the hardware-software interface; in particular, focusing on what a programmer needs to know about the underlying hardware to achieve high performance for his or her code.?COMP 2601?COMP 1600?$?2?
10?Computer Networks?1?This course examines some of the important concepts related to computer networks, e.g., the network edge and core, routers, the ISO and TCP/IP reference models for computer communication and networking protocols. Many use the Internet and local area networks every day but are not fully aware as to what goes on “behind-the-scenes” to make this network communication possible. In this course, students explore what happens to the data in the computer before it is prepared for transmission, how protocols work to transmit the data and how it is received at other computers. Error control and recovery methods for lost or corrupted data are also investigated. A layered model for computer communications is thoroughly examined. Students will write networking programs and test them on a local area network or on the Internet.?COMP 2602?COMP 1600?$?2?
11?Object-Oriented Programming I?2?This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the concepts and techniques of object-oriented programming. This course introduces the concepts of object-oriented programming to students with a background in the procedural paradigm.?COMP 2603?COMP 1603?$?2?
12?Operating Systems?2?This course looks at the inner workings of operating systems such as Windows, Ubuntu, and Mac OS X, both from a theoretical algorithmic point of view as well as a practical system programming point of view. The student will be introduced to the fundamental algorithms that support the existence of contemporary operating systems. Topics include the important areas of processes, threads, and CPU management, main and virtual memory management, file systems, disk scheduling algorithms, protection and security.?COMP 2604?COMP 1600?$?2?
13?Enterprise Database Systems?1?This course covers the design and implementation of relational database systems. Emphasis is placed on the database design of real world business application using Entity Relationship modelling. SQL programming is covered in detail. Data Management concepts such as Transaction Management, Concurrency Control, Recovery, and backups are presented. XML-enabled databases are also studied. An overview of several specialized databases is introduced and the technical and managerial responsibilities of a database administrator are discussed. By utilizing an abundance of real world business applications, students are introduced to database systems and designs used by organizations. Additionally students examine the characteristics of database transactions and how they affect database integrity and consistency. At the end of this course, students will be able to effectively design and implement enterprise database systems.?COMP 2605?COMP 1601?COMP 1602?$?2?
14?Software Engineering I?2?The specification, development, management, and evolution of software systems make up the discipline of software engineering. In this course, students apply methods and tools to develop software designs and specifications.  The course focuses on universal techniques for developing large-scale systems rather than individual algorithms. In order to build good business systems, it is particularly important that the student place a great deal of emphasis in exploring the different process models and the topics covering requirements analysis and system specification, system architecture and design, verification and validation and system evolution. During the course, students will participate in a real problem solving/software development project which will expose them to the processes, tools and techniques of professional product quality software development.?COMP 2606?COMP 1603?$?2?
15?Data Structures?1?A data structure is a way of storing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently. Data structures is an important part of the equation; Programs = Algorithms + Data structures. Often a carefully chosen data structure will allow the most efficient algorithm to be used. A well-designed data structure allows a variety of critical operations to be performed, minimizing the use of execution time and memory space. This course covers some fundamental data structures— stacks, queues, linked lists, binary trees, heaps and graphs—which are required for programming the solutions to a wide variety of real-world and theoretical problems.?COMP 2611?COMP 1603?$?2?
16?Design and Analysis of Algorithms?1?This course covers specific fundamental algorithm-design techniques used to formulate solutions to a wide variety of problems. It also covers problem-solving techniques for analysing algorithms to determine space/time requirements.?COMP 3601?COMP 2611?$?3?
17?Theory of Computing?2?The course introduces undergraduate computer science students to the foundations of theoretical computer science. It exposes them to abstractions which can be used to solve complex real world problems. It introduces: Regular Languages, Finite Automata, Context-free Languages, Computability; Turing machines and Complexity Classes. Finally, students gain an appreciation for theoretical aspects of computing and the basic skills required to assess the limitations of the computer.?COMP 3602?COMP 2611?$?3?
18?Human-Computer Interaction?2?Human-computer interaction is an interdisciplinary field that integrates theories and methodologies from computer science, cognitive psychology, design, and many other areas. The course is intended to introduce the student to the basic concepts of human-computer interaction. It will cover the basic theory and methods that exist in the field. The course will unfold by examining design and evaluation. Case studies are used throughout the readings to exemplify the methods presented and to lend a context to the issues discussed. The students will gain principles and skills for designing and evaluating interactive systems. The heart of the course is a semester-long group project that will help students learn in a hands-on way about the various stages of an effective design process. The goal of this course is to help students realize that user interface development is an ongoing process throughout the full product life cycle, and developing the human-computer interface is not something to be done at the last minute, when the "rest of the system" is finished. Hence, this course concentrates on creating and testing DESIGNS of human-computer systems through low and medium fidelity prototypes and NOT with implementing a piece of software in this class.?COMP 3603?COMP 2606?$?3?
19?Software Engineering II?1?This course is a continuation of developing skills surrounding software engineering, its principles and practical applications within the computer science curriculum. This course will expose students to the required engineering rigors of specifying, designing, developing and maintaining product-quality code. It will prepare them for the challenge of developing software systems as part of a team through a better understanding of development process methodologies, and an appreciation of the different challenges software engineers face in domains as varied as web-based systems, mission-critical systems and safety-critical systems.?COMP 3613?COMP 2606?$?3?
20?Web Programming and Technologies I?2?This course covers the design, implementation and testing of web-based applications and the incorporation of a variety of digital media into these applications. Students are exposed to a range of web technologies, both client-side and server-side. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning, case studies and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations and lab examinations.?INFO 2602?INFO 1601?$?2?
21?Information Systems Security?2?Information Systems Security builds upon concepts explored in Computer Programming II. This course explores concepts needed to manage the necessary processes that guarantee information assurance.  It covers operational issues, policies and procedures, attacks and defense mechanisms, risk analyses and information security. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning, case studies and various online resources.?INFO 2604?COMP 1602?$?2?
22?Project?2?The course requires the student to implement a project of an appropriate scope. The student will liaise with an academic supervisor. Several lectures may be given on project management and research methodologies. The course will be delivered using consultation sessions with student groups. Assignments will take the form of written deliverables, presentations and online journals. This course will allow students to apply what they have learnt throughout their respective programmes in order to implement a functional project. The course also allows students to apply the project management process which involves project planning and group communication. These skills are necessary in the real world system development environment.?INFO 3604?INFO 2600?COMP 2606?$?3?
23?Industrial Statistics?1?Statistics and probability; frequency distributions, frequency polygons and histograms; introduction to probability; basic axioms, conditional probability, Bayes theorem, mutual independence; introduction to random variables; probability distribution, Bernoulli trials, the Binomial distribution and the Poisson distribution; probability density and mass functions of a continuous random variable; expectation and variance; the exponential and normal distributions; distribution of sample means; point estimates; confidence intervals; statistical inference - tests of significance. Regression analysis; analysis of multiple regression; non-parametric statistical methods; analysis of variance; design of experiments; randomised block design and analysis.?MATH 2250?NONE?$?2?