Introduction to Computing Concepts?1?This course presents an overview of computing technology and the field of computer science. Discussion topics will include the organisation of modern computers, operating systems, algorithms, programming languages and database systems.?COMP 1600?NONE?1?
Computer Programming I?1?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach fundamental programming concepts. The main concepts covered are sequence, selection and repetition logic, character and string manipulation, function, and a basic introduction to arrays and their applications.?COMP 1601?NONE?1?
Computer Programming II?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are structures, one- and two-dimensional arrays and applications involving searching, sorting and merging, random number generation, numerical methods, games and simulation.?COMP 1602?NONE?1?
Computer Programming III?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are pointers, linked lists, stacks and queues and their implementations using arrays and linked lists and recursion.?COMP 1603?NONE?1?
Mathematics of Computing?2?This course introduces students to the basic mathematical structures and computational techniques that are considered to be the foundation for courses in computer science and information technology. Students are also taught how to reason logically and how to solve problems using various proof techniques. The main mathematical structures covered are logic, sets, relations and functions?COMP 1604?NONE?1?
Introduction to Information Technology Concepts?1?This is a foundation course in Information Technology and it introduces students to the discipline of Information Technology. It describes how it relates to other computing disciplines. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate what is Information Technology and how it is used by organizations today to improve their efficiency and profitability. The course also provides a general overview of the B.Sc. in Information Technology so that when the course concludes, students will understand how the whole degree fits together in a cohesive manner. Numerous examples are presented throughout the course so that students can get a concrete picture of the role of information technology in organizations.?INFO 1600?NONE?1?
Introduction to WWW Programming?2?This is an introduction to web technologies and systems, including hypertext, self-descriptive text, web page design, web navigational systems, and various mark-up languages and scripting languages. Programming examples; exercises and projects are drawn from practical web-based applications. Good programming practice and program clarity is emphasized throughout the course. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate the need for web related technologies and how they are used by organizations to improve their efficiency, marketability and profitability.?INFO 1601?NONE?1?
Fundamental Mathematics for the General Sciences I?1?Course offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics?MATH 1115?NONE?1?
Object-Oriented Programming I?2?This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the concepts and techniques of object-oriented programming. This course introduces the concepts of object-oriented programming to students with a background in the procedural paradigm.?COMP 2603?COMP 1603?2?
