1?Introduction to Computing Concepts?1?This course presents an overview of computing technology and the field of computer science. Discussion topics will include the organisation of modern computers, operating systems, algorithms, programming languages and database systems.?COMP 1600?NONE?$?1?
2?Computer Programming I?1?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach fundamental programming concepts. The main concepts covered are sequence, selection and repetition logic, character and string manipulation, function, and a basic introduction to arrays and their applications.?COMP 1601?NONE?$?1?
3?Computer Programming II?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are structures, one- and two-dimensional arrays and applications involving searching, sorting and merging, random number generation, numerical methods, games and simulation.?COMP 1602?NONE?$?1?
4?Computer Programming III?2?This course uses an appropriate programming language as a tool to teach intermediate programming concepts. The main concepts covered are pointers, linked lists, stacks and queues and their implementations using arrays and linked lists and recursion.?COMP 1603?NONE?$?1?
5?Mathematics for Computing?2?This course introduces students to the basic mathematical structures and computational techniques that are considered to be the foundation for courses in computer science and information technology. Students are also taught how to reason logically and how to solve problems using various proof techniques. The main mathematical structures covered are logic, sets, relations and functions.?COMP 1604?NONE?$?1?
6?Introduction to Information Technology Concepts?1?This is a foundation course in Information Technology and it introduces students to the discipline of Information Technology. It describes how it relates to other computing disciplines. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate what is Information Technology and how it is used by organizations today to improve their efficiency and profitability. The course also provides a general overview of the B.Sc. in Information Technology so that when the course concludes, students will understand how the whole degree fits together in a cohesive manner. Numerous examples are presented throughout the course so that students can get a concrete picture of the role of information technology in organizations.?INFO 1600?NONE?$?1?
7?Introduction to WWW Programming?2?This is an introduction to web technologies and systems, including hypertext, self-descriptive text, web page design, web navigational systems, and various mark-up languages and scripting languages. Programming examples; exercises and projects are drawn from practical web-based applications. Good programming practice and program clarity is emphasized throughout the course. At the end of the course, students will be able to appreciate the need for web related technologies and how they are used by organizations to improve their efficiency, marketability and profitability.?INFO 1601?NONE?$?1?
8?Fundamental Mathematics for the General Sciences I?1?Course offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics?MATH 1115?NONE?$?1?
9?Object-Oriented Programming I?2?This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the concepts and techniques of object-oriented programming. This course introduces the concepts of object-oriented programming to students with a background in the procedural paradigm.?COMP 2603?COMP 1603?$?2?
10?Enterprise Database Systems?1?This course covers the design and implementation of relational database systems. Emphasis is placed on the database design of real world business application using Entity Relationship modelling. SQL programming is covered in detail. Data Management concepts such as Transaction Management, Concurrency Control, Recovery, and backups are presented. XML-enabled databases are also studied. An overview of several specialized databases is introduced and the technical and managerial responsibilities of a database administrator are discussed. By utilizing an abundance of real world business applications, students are introduced to database systems and designs used by organizations. Additionally students examine the characteristics of database transactions and how they affect database integrity and consistency. At the end of this course, students will be able to effectively design and implement enterprise database systems.?COMP 2605?COMP 1601?COMP 1602?$?2?
11?Software Engineering I?2?The specification, development, management, and evolution of software systems make up the discipline of software engineering. In this course, students apply methods and tools to develop software designs and specifications.  The course focuses on universal techniques for developing large-scale systems rather than individual algorithms. In order to build good business systems, it is particularly important that the student place a great deal of emphasis in exploring the different process models and the topics covering requirements analysis and system specification, system architecture and design, verification and validation and system evolution. During the course, students will participate in a real problem solving/software development project which will expose them to the processes, tools and techniques of professional product quality software development.?COMP 2606?COMP 1603?$?2?
12?Human-Computer Interaction?2?Human-computer interaction is an interdisciplinary field that integrates theories and methodologies from computer science, cognitive psychology, design, and many other areas. The course is intended to introduce the student to the basic concepts of human-computer interaction. It will cover the basic theory and methods that exist in the field. The course will unfold by examining design and evaluation. Case studies are used throughout the readings to exemplify the methods presented and to lend a context to the issues discussed. The students will gain principles and skills for designing and evaluating interactive systems. The heart of the course is a semester-long group project that will help students learn in a hands-on way about the various stages of an effective design process. The goal of this course is to help students realize that user interface development is an ongoing process throughout the full product life cycle, and developing the human-computer interface is not something to be done at the last minute, when the "rest of the system" is finished. Hence, this course concentrates on creating and testing DESIGNS of human-computer systems through low and medium fidelity prototypes and NOT with implementing a piece of software in this class.?COMP 3603?COMP 2606?$?3?
13?Information Systems Development?1?This course exposes students to the basic concepts of Information Systems and Information Systems development. Throughout the course, information is seen as a valuable corporate resource, one that can be used to maximize profit and improve competitiveness of a business organization. Consequently, the course takes an in-depth look at business processes and the ways in which they can be automated through an Information System. There is extensive coverage of the technical foundations of modern Information Systems as well as the process of developing and implementing a suitable Information System for an organization. The development of web-based information systems is also covered. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, eLearning, case studies, field trips, guest lecturers and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 2600?INFO 1600?$?2?
14?Networking Technologies Fundamentals?1?Computer networks are an indispensable component of any modern Information Technology infrastructure. This course introduces students to the world of computer networks. Principles and protocols for data communication are covered. Network architecture models are visited and students get exposure to the practical aspects of networking such as setting up a basic network, router configuration, crimping of cables, etc. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning, case studies, labs and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, lab examinations, group projects, presentations and online assignments.?INFO 2601?COMP 1600?INFO 1600?$?2?
15?Web Programming and Technologies I?2?This course covers the design, implementation and testing of web-based applications and the incorporation of a variety of digital media into these applications. Students are exposed to a range of web technologies, both client-side and server-side. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning, case studies and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations and lab examinations.?INFO 2602?INFO 1601?$?2?
16?Platform Technologies I?1?This course provides the student with an introductory understanding of the terminology and concepts of operating systems and computer networking.  The technical foundation of operating system installation, configuration, administration and troubleshooting are introduced to students. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, eLearning and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 2603?INFO 1600?COMP 1600?$?2?
17?Information Systems Security?2?Information Systems Security builds upon concepts explored in Computer Programming II. This course explores concepts needed to manage the necessary processes that guarantee information assurance.  It covers operational issues, policies and procedures, attacks and defense mechanisms, risk analyses and information security. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning, case studies and various online resources.?INFO 2604?COMP 1602?$?2?
18?Professional Ethics and Law?2?This course provides an overview of current ethical standards and practices in the computing and information technology area. Students will develop an awareness of both the ethical and legal issues facing the computerized workplace. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, eLearning, case studies and various online resources.  Assignments will take the form of written examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 2605?INFO 1600?COMP 1600?$?2?
19?Business Information Systems?1?The course focuses on Information Systems in terms of business processes. It covers transaction cycles, events, and activities of Revenue, Expenditure, Production, and Human Resources business processes. The course covers core application frameworks – customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning, revenue and expenditure management, and human resource management – with emphasis on modelling of business processes and data. The material is covered from the perspective of business in Trinidad & Tobago. E-Business concepts and principles are introduced. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, blended learning case studies, labs and various online resources.?INFO 3600?COMP 2605?$?3?
20?Platform Technologies II?1?This course builds on operating systems concepts. It provides the student with a more detailed understanding of platform management. Students will be using numerous administrative tools to install, configure, manage and troubleshoot systems, applications and its services on an operating system platform. By extension students are expected to use this knowledge to manage different operating systems platforms including cluster systems and to some extent mobile operating system platforms. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3601?INFO 2603?COMP 2601?$?3?
21?Web Programming and Technologies II?2?This course focuses on the development of web services and the evaluation and utilization of software tools to provide solution to common business problems within the market place. Students are exposed to technologies involved in the development of web services and industry relevant tools for designing, developing and managing web systems. The course will be delivered using a combination of interactive lectures, eLearning, case studies and online resources. Assignments will take the form of lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3602?INFO 2602?$?3?
22?Project?2?The course requires the student to implement a project of an appropriate scope. The student will liaise with an academic supervisor. Several lectures may be given on project management and research methodologies. The course will be delivered using consultation sessions with student groups. Assignments will take the form of written deliverables, presentations and online journals. This course will allow students to apply what they have learnt throughout their respective programmes in order to implement a functional project. The course also allows students to apply the project management process which involves project planning and group communication. These skills are necessary in the real world system development environment.?INFO 3604?INFO 2600?COMP 2606?$?3?
23?Industrial Statistics?1?Statistics and probability; frequency distributions, frequency polygons and histograms; introduction to probability; basic axioms, conditional probability, Bayes theorem, mutual independence; introduction to random variables; probability distribution, Bernoulli trials, the Binomial distribution and the Poisson distribution; probability density and mass functions of a continuous random variable; expectation and variance; the exponential and normal distributions; distribution of sample means; point estimates; confidence intervals; statistical inference - tests of significance. Regression analysis; analysis of multiple regression; non-parametric statistical methods; analysis of variance; design of experiments; randomised block design and analysis.?MATH 2250?NONE?$?2?