1?Introduction to Data Analytics?1?This course provides an introduction to various computational and data mining techniques that are used within the computer science discipline to facilitate intelligent decision making and analysis within systems. The course focuses on providing a practical understanding of a number of computational intelligence techniques without over-burdening the student with the theoretical foundation that many of these techniques possess. The course provides a foundational understanding of topics that will be useful for further work in data mining analysis and machine learning. The course will utilize an appropriate programming language (e.g., python) and available software tools (e.g., scikit-learn, scipy and pandas) to give students practical experience utilizing these algorithms to solve real world problems.?COMP 3605?MATH 2250?$?3?
2?Object-Oriented Programming II?2?The course looks at the main tools of modern object-oriented software development. The main tools are: design-support tools (principally design patterns) and programming-support tools (principally IDE). This course has a strong emphasis on project design and programming using design patterns. Each pattern represents a best practice solution to a software problem in a specific context. The course covers the rationale and benefits of object-oriented software design patterns. Numerous problems will be studied to investigate the implementation of good design patterns.?COMP 3607?COMP 2603?$?3?
3?Game Programming?1?The Game Programming course will allow students to combine concepts taught in order courses together with the new game programming concepts taught in this course, in order to build games. The students will be introduced to an appropriate 2D programming API (e.g., Java), the game loop, game entities, images, sound, animations, game physics and user input. At the end of the course students will have a good grasp on the concepts of game programming and will be able to produce games for multiple platforms.  The course covers the fundamental aspects of images, sounds, animations and sprites and shows how to develop a two-dimensional game using these elements. Mathematics and Physics principles are discussed throughout the course whenever they are pertinent to the topics being presented (e.g. collision detection of sprites).?COMP 3609?COMP 2603?COMP 2606?$?3?
4?Big Data Analytics?2?The course exposes students to the various approaches used in analysing big data. The course focuses on the use of data warehouses and distributed database design to analyse structured data and Hadoop for unstructured data. Students are also introduced to various NoSQL databases and approaches for storing and processing large volumes of data. The MapReduce model for processing large data sets in discussed and it is compared against the parallel database approach.?COMP 3610?COMP 3605?$?3?
5?Modelling and Simulation?1?This course covers basic to intermediate techniques for discrete event simulation of common scenarios. It draws on concepts from the theory of computation and computer programming. In many real world situations, it is infeasible to develop a precise mathematical model with a closed-form analytic solution for a given problem. Modelling and simulation is a means of coping with this type of problem.?COMP 3611?MATH 2250?$?3?
6?Special Topics in Computer Science?1 or 2?Each time this course is offered, it addresses a topic in computer science that is not covered as a regular course. Topics may change from year to year. Some of these topics include: Computer Graphics; Robotics, Computer Assisted Design (CAD); E-Learning; Mobile Health; Data Visualization; E-Science; Speech Synthesis; Advanced Processor Architecture; Expert Systems; Computability and Complexity; Proof of Correctness of Programs; Image Processing; any other approved topic.?COMP 3612?COMP 2611?COMP 2603?$?3?
7?Fundamentals of LAN Technologies?1?This course builds on fundamental networking concepts by introducing students to Local Area Network (LAN) switching equipment, protocols and topologies. Students learn about Classless Routing, RIP V2, Single Area OSPF, EIGRP, and the Spanning Tree Protocol, and differentiate between cut-through and store-and-forward LAN switching. Lab activities include implementing VLSM, RIP V2, OSPF, EIGRP, trunking and routing VLANs. Students create virtual LANs and analyze various LAN segmentations. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, case studies, simulations and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of multiple choice, simulated lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3605?INFO 2601?COMP 2604?$?3?
8?Cloud Computing?1?This course provides the student with an understanding of virtualization and its role in both private and cloud technologies. The student will be able to manage virtualization technologies and management of private and public cloud technologies. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, case studies and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3606?COMP 2605?$?3?
9?Fundamentals of WAN Technologies?2?This course introduces WAN theory and design, WAN technology, PPP, ISDN and Frame Relay. Topics include network congestion problems, TCP/IP transport and network layer protocols, and advanced routing. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, eLearning, case studies, simulations and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of multiple choice, simulated lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3607?INFO 2601?COMP 2604?$?3?
10?E-Commerce?2?This course provides broad coverage of e-commerce systems. It covers the various e-commerce business models and e-commerce payment systems. The course will be delivered using a combination of lectures, eLearning, case studies and various online resources. Assignments will take the form of written examinations, lab examinations, group projects and presentations.?INFO 3608?INFO 2600?COMP 2606?$?3?
11?Internship?1 or 2?This course provides students with an opportunity to develop practical skills through the application of computer science concepts within a structured and supervised environment. The course requires the student to develop software artifact(s) that will be useful to the business/institution and will be used beyond the scope/time of the internship.?INFO 3609?INFO 2600?COMP 2606?$?3?